# ROS2 Demo
This repo will act as a getting started for UDMRT Computer Team in Fall 2024.

## Step 1 - Install an Ubuntu 22.04 VM on your laptop
I recommend VMWare Workstation Pro 17 for Windows, VMWare Fusion for Mac, or KVM for Linux. You will have to do your own research to figure out how to install an Ubuntu 22.04 Desktop VM with your selected VM software. 

Please install a VM with at least the following specs:
- 64 GB storage
- 8 GB Memory
- 4 CPU Cores

## Step 2 - Connect your VM to your Git account
In your new Ubuntu VM, open the Terminal application. Run the command, 
```
ssh-keygen
```
Then, press enter for each prompt, until an SSH key is generated, which you will use to connect to git. Proceed by running the command, 
```
cat .ssh/id_rsa.pub
```
The output will be the SSH key generated by the VM. Copy this output by highlighting it and pressing ctrl+shift+c, or right clicking and pressing copy. 

Navigate to github.com and sign in, or create an account if you do not have one.

Go to settings by clicking your icon in the top right of the page, and navigate to Settings > SSH and GPG Keys, and press `New SSH Key`. You will then be able to enter a title, which should be a descriptive name of your VM, like "UDMRT Ubuntu 22.04 VM on my Macbook in VMWare Fusion". Then, paste the key generated by Ubuntu. Finally, press `Add SSH Key`. Good work, your VM is now connected with your GitHub account. 

To get added to the UDMRT Computer Team, visit [this form](https://forms.gle/hWcz3sa8TFxpy7vH9) to request access. I will be manually adding email addresses to the team as they come in. 

To ensure future commits you make can be tracked, run the following commands in the Ubuntu terminal, replacing Firstname, Lastname, and Email with yours.
```
git config --global user.name "Firstname Lastname"
git config --global user.email "Email"
```
## Step 3 - Install Visual Studio Code
In Firefox in your Ubuntu VM, search for "download VS code"

Download the .deb file. If you are on an Arm processor, be sure to specify the correct architecture when you download.

Go to Files in Ubuntu, then to Downloads, then right click the deb file, select Open With Other Application > Software Install. Then, you can press install to begin installing VS Code on your device. 

Alternatively, if you know how to do so, you can use SSH to edit code in your VM.

## Step 4 - Clone this getting started repo
When we work with the actual UDMRT, I will allow your user to access the repo, and you can clone it via SSH, which allows you to make modifications. however, for this demo, you don't need to push to the repository, so we will clone with HTTPS. 

In your Ubuntu 22.04 VM, run the command, 
```
git clone https://github.com/UDMarsRover/ros2-demo.git
```
You will now have the files for this repository on your local machine. 
If the command fails because git is not installed, run `sudo apt-get install git`, and try again.


